--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATES’ STARTUP  
RANKING FRAMEWORK 
 
6th Edition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 2025 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
1. Vision 
 
➢ Following the launch of the Startup India initiative by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to 
catalyze the growth of India’s startup ecosystem, the first States’ Startup Conference was convened in 
July 2016. The aim was to encourage States and Union Territories to foster their local startup ecosystems 
through targeted policy interventions, institutional frameworks, effective monitoring  and recognition 
mechanisms. 
 
➢ Since then, this periodic capacity -building and ranking exercise has become a cornerstone for energising the 
startup economy across the nation. It plays a crucial role in aligning key stakeholders, encouraging innovation-
driven development and fostering healthy competition among States and UTs — collectively propelling India 
towards greater self-reliance and sustainable economic growth. 
 
➢ The Ranking Exercise is employing a systematic approach towards recognizing States and Union Territories with 
mature and nascent Startup Ecosystems. 
 
➢ The exercise will provide impetus to all enablers within States and Union Territories to maintain a conducive 
environment for the startup ecosystem. 
 
➢ The objective is to establish an institutional framework that fosters collaboration between the Government, 
Private Sector, and Academia to collectively strengthen and scale the startup ecosystem across the country.   
 
2. General Principles 
 
➢ The framework would evaluate progress made from 1st January 202 5 to 31st May 2026 (The period of 
consideration for the 5 th edition framework was from January 2023 to December 2024 ). Consequently, 
submission of documentary evidence by states and union territories through the States’ Startup Ranking Portal 
will need to be submitted by 10th May 2026. 
 
➢ For the purposes of evaluation, all States and UTs have been divided into two categories: Category A and 
Category B. Category A has been further divided into two sub-categories, namely A1 and A2. 
 
➢ The scores of various aspects in the framework may be divided into the following categories: 
a) Document Submission 
b) Private Ecosystem Assessment 
c) Feedback Survey Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3. Summary 
 
Reform Area  Action Point 
Marks allocated 
to the Action 
Point  
Total Score 
of the 
Reform Area 
1. Institutional 
Support 
1. Support Provided to Startups by State/UT 
Department(s) 6 
18 2. For development with a progressive and 
innovative focus 5 
3. Facilitation of grassroot innovation and support 
to women & young entrepreneurs 7 
2. Infrastructure 
Support 
4. Incubation and Acceleration support 7 
16 5. Infrastructure support in Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 
4 regions 4 
6. Access to Digital Infrastructure 5 
3. Funding 
Opportunities 
7. Ease of access to funding 3 
11 8. Funding through state supported funds or 
mechanisms 4 
9. Support in fundraising initiatives 4 
4. Market Access & 
Reach 
10. Market access opportunity provided to startups 
through Public Procurement 5 
11 11. Access to Domestic and International Market 
Opportunities and Partnerships 4 
12. Facilitating Ease of Doing Business for Startups 
through Trusted Partner & Green Channel 
mechanisms 
2 
5. Ecosystem 
Capacity Building 
13. Capacity Building of State/UT Government 
Departments on Startup Ecosystem of India 3 
8 
14. State/UT supported initiatives to sensitize 
ecosystem enablers 5 
6. Focus on 
Innovation and 
Sustainability  
15. Initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to 
facilitate research and innovation 4 
9 16. Support for Startups in Green Growth and 
Sustainability 2 
17. Entrepreneurial growth in the social innovation 
landscape 3 
7. Impact and 
Recognition 
18. Job opportunities created by startups  1 
2 
19. Recognition of the startup ecosystem 1 
Total Count 19 75 
  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4. Scoring Details  
 
a) Document Submission – Scores will be awarded based on the documentary evidence submitted by the States 
and UTs in compliance with reform areas and action points as per the 6th edition of the framework. 
 
b) Private Ecosystem Assessment - Scores will be rewarded based on private ecosystem mapping and will 
amount to 10% of the total score.  
 
c) Feedback Survey Scoring - Scores will be awarded based on survey responses and will amount to 15% of the 
total score. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ranking Framework Overview 
 
 
S. No. 
 
Reform Area 
 
Score Action 
Points (APs) 
APs with 
Absolute 
Scoring 
APs with 
Relative 
Scoring 
1 Institutional Support 18 3 3 0 
2 Infrastructure Support 16 3 2 1 
3 Funding Opportunities 11 3 3 0 
4 Market Access & Reach 11 3 2 1 
5 Ecosystem Capacity Building 8 2 1 1 
6 Focus on Innovation and 
Sustainability 9 3 3 0 
7 Impact & Recognition 2 2 2 0 
Total 75 19 16 3 
 
 
 
 
 
S. No. Components Description 
 
1. 
Based on Documents submitted by States 
and Union Territories 
With 75% Weightage 
 
❖ Absolute Scoring + Relative Scoring 
2. Private Ecosystem Mapping 
 
With 10% Weightage 
❖ Research, Analysis & Mapping of the   
Private Ecosystem Enablers 
 
3. 
Garnering Feedback from Startups across 
States & Union Territories 
With 15% Weightage 
 
❖ Feedback Survey Scoring 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
Feedback Mechanism 
 
 
Tentative Feedback Questionnaire 
 
1. Do you know about any mentorship support provided within your State/UT? 
2. Do you know about any kind of accelerator or incubator programs in your State/UT? 
3. Is there any synergy between academia and industry that you have been able to benefit from? 
4. Do you know of any sectoral policies dedicated to Startups in your state? 
5. Does your Startup focus on the identified priority sector of your State/UT? If yes, have you received any kind 
of support from your State/UT? 
6. Does your Startup have a female founder, and have you received any kind of support or special incentives? 
7. Have you resolved any queries you had using the grievance portal or helpline for Startups in your State/UT? 
8. Have you received any kind of funding support? 
9. Have you received any opportunity to showcase your product/service either domestically or 
internationally or both? 
10. Does Startup focus on Deep tech, renewable energy or sustainability? If yes, has your Startup received any 
kind of support from your State/UT? 
11. Did you attend any pitching session/demo day/workshop? 
12. Have you attended any kind of event to connect with ecosystem stakeholders? 
 
Private Ecosystem Mapping 
 
Mapping of the Private Ecosystem will be undertaken to assess the strength and depth of collaboration between 
private stakeholders and startups across each State and Union Territory. This exercise aims to evaluate both the 
quality and quantity of support e xtended by the private sector to foster a vibrant startup ecosystem . The 
assessment will cover key dimensions such as access to private capital, startup support infrastructure, industry -
specific initiatives, corporate innovation, market access, entrepreneurial culture, global linkages, ecosystem 
connectivity, and diversity & inclusion. The mapping will focus on the contributions of private ecosystem 
stakeholders and their role in building a dynamic, inclusive  and sustainable startup landscape. This initiative will 
provide critical insights to encourage further improvements and promote a conducive environment for startups 
across States and UTs. 
 
Combining the Overall Scores 
1. Based on scores on all action points, overall scores for each State or UT shall be calculated. 
2. Within each category, States and UTs will be graded based on their relative performance into grades. 
3. Best-performing States/UTs shall also be graded in each framework pillar to recognize their performance. 
4. In addition, individual officers shall also be awarded for their significant contribution in strengthening the Startup 
ecosystem under their jurisdictions. 
Feedback Mechanism 
• Registered stakeholders  with the Bharat Startup Knowledge Access  Registry (BHASKAR) platform under  
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) will be considered as “Registered 
stakeholders” for research study. 
• States and UTs shall provide contact details of all registered stakeholders in the State/UT in the format 
shared by DPIIT. 
• 50% positive feedback will result in acceptance of the survey results. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Categorization of States and Union Territories (UTs) 
 
The categorization in the 6th Edition of framework aims to bring uniformity in the evaluation process 
and bring all the States and UTs to a level-playing field. While there will be two distinct categories - 
Category A and Category B, a further subdivision has been incorporated within Category A as listed 
below. 
 
1. Under Category A, 
• Category A1 includes all States/UTs with a population of more than 5 crore. 
• Category A2 includes all States/UTs with a population of more than 1 crore and less than 5 
crores.1 
 
2. Category B includes all States/UTs with a population of less than 1 crore.2 
 
  
  Categorization as below: 
 
States and UTs within CATEGORY A 
Sr. No. Category A1 Sr. No. Category A2 
1 Bihar 1 Andhra Pradesh 
2 Gujarat 2 Chhattisgarh 
3 Karnataka 3 Haryana 
4 Madhya Pradesh 4 Jammu and Kashmir 
5 Maharashtra 5 Jharkhand 
6 Rajasthan 6 Kerala 
7 Tamil Nadu 7 NCT of Delhi 
8 Uttar Pradesh 8 Odisha 
9 West Bengal 9 Punjab 
 10 Telangana 
11 Uttarakhand 
 
 
 
1 Census 2011 
2 Census 2011 

--- PAGE 7 ---
States and UTs within CATEGORY B 
Sr. No. Category B 
1 Andaman and Nicobar Islands 
2 Arunachal Pradesh 
3 Assam3 
4 Chandigarh 
5 Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu 
6 Goa 
7 Himachal Pradesh 
8 Ladakh 
9 Lakshadweep 
10 Manipur 
11 Meghalaya 
12 Mizoram 
13 Nagaland 
14 Puducherry 
15 Sikkim 
16 Tripura 
 
 
Rationale behind Population-based Categorization 
 
• The population metric, based on Census 2011 data, has been adopted as the primary parameter 
for categorizing States and UTs to ensure a fair and meaningful comparison across vastly diverse 
geographies.  
• Population is a fundamental indicator of the scale and complexity of governance, economic 
activity and administrative outreach required to support startup ecosystems. Larger states face 
proportionally greater challenges in outreach, policy implementation, resource distribution and 
impact measurement due to the sheer volume and diversity of their populat ions. 
• By dividing States and UTs into 3 categories: Category A1 (population > 5 crore), Category A2 (1–
5 crore), and Category B (< 1 crore) —the framework aims to create a level playing field that 
recognizes these demographic differences.  
• This stratification allows for more equitable benchmarking by accounting for the varying 
capacities, startup volumes and administrative loads of each State or UT, rather than evaluating 
all entities against a single uniform standard. 
• Furthermore, Census 2011 continues to be the most recent official source of comprehensive 
population data. 
 
3 Although Assam qualifies for Category A1 based on population, its unique Northeast geography and nascent startup ecosystem , makes it more appropriate to be 
categorized under Category B, alongside other Northeastern and hilly States and UTs.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 1:  
Institutional Support 

--- PAGE 9 ---
1. Support Provided to Startups by State/UT Department(s) 
 
 
 
Questions 
1.1 Does your State/UT have an active Startup Policy? 
1.2 Have there been any amendments or renewals to the State/UT Startup Policy since its initial 
launch? 
1.3 Provide a structure of the current strength, roles and hierarchy of the nodal team responsible 
for startup-related initiatives. 
1.4 Have the State/UT department and other relevant departments allocated a budget for startups 
and related activities in the financial years 2024-25 and 2025-26? 
1.5 Details of institutional support for Startups by departments other than the Nodal department.  
Scoring 
Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  For 
 
  Q1.1: Yes / No 
  Q1.2: Yes / No 
  Q1.3: Provide a detailed     
structure of the total 
strength of the Nodal 
Team, along with their 
Roles and Hierarchical 
Structure 
  Q1.4: Any budget allocated by 
the State/UT Nodal Team 
and other departments 
for startup-related 
activities 
  Q1.5.a: Number of Startups 
getting institutional 
support (other than from 
the Nodal Department) 
for Category A 
  Q1.5.b: Number of 
Departments (other than 
the Nodal Department) 
providing institutional 
support to Startups for 
Category B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
 
For Q1.1: Max Score – 1 
 
For Q1.2: Max Score – 1 
 
For Q1.3: Max Score – 1 
 
For Q1.4: Max Score – 1 
 
    For Q1.5: Max Score – 2 
 
Category A 
❖ >100 startups = 2 
❖ 51-100 startups = 1 
❖ 1-50 startups = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ >4 departments = 2 
❖ 3-4 departments = 1 
❖ 1-2 departments = 0.5 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 6 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q1.1: 
• Date of official implementation of the State/UT Startup Policy, as per the Government Order or 
Notification. This should indicate when the policy came into effect and began guiding startup-
related initiatives in the State/UT. 
• G.O. / Notification and Policy Document for State / UT Startup Policy 
Q1.2: 
• G.O. / Notification for Policy Renewal or Amendment, if any 
• Policy Documents / Amended Policy Documents for the above, if any 
• Details of Sub Policies within the State Startup Policy 
• List of Government Orders or Notifications for renewal/upgradation of Startup Policies, if any 
Q1.3: 
• G.O. / Notification citing the Nodal Department 
• Detailed documents showcasing team structure of the Nodal Department 
• Total number of schemes and policies facilitating Startups in the State/UT 
Q1.4: 
• Budget Documents, G.O.s and Notifications related to Startup support – for both Nodal and other 
supporting Departments including details of allocated and approved budget 
• Copies of annual budget documents clearly showing line items or allocations for startups and 
related activities. 
Q1.5: 
• List of Departments providing institutional support to Startups 
• List and number of Startups that have availed incentives, scheme-wise / initiative-wise 

--- PAGE 10 ---
• Details of support provided under each scheme 
• For departments other than the Nodal Department, please also share: 
➢ Government orders / notifications / circulars issued by other departments for startup support 
➢ Department-specific startup policies or sectoral schemes 
➢ Budget allocation documents / sanction orders for startup initiatives by other departments 
➢ MoUs / collaboration agreements with incubators, accelerators, or industry bodies 
➢ Program or scheme guidelines launched by other departments for startups 
➢ Circulars / instructions to field offices on supporting startups 
➢ Minutes of meetings discussing startup-related initiatives in other departments 
➢ Event reports or documents showing participation in startup-related events 
➢ Impact reports of startup initiatives by other departments 
➢ Orders creating institutional mechanisms like task forces or startup cells in other departments 
  Guidelines   Mandatory: 
1. Details of State Startup Policy including amendments if any, nodal officer, nodal department to 
be provided. 
2. States/UTs must provide Government Orders or Notifications related to the renewal, extension, 
or amendment of the Startup Policy, along with the updated policy documents wherever 
applicable. 
3. State government departments providing institutional support to Startups during the period of 
consideration (excluding the nodal department) in the form of program facilitation, grand 
challenges, initiatives, policies, events etc. will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
4. Institutional support by State/UT may include but not limited to support in the form of Policy 
Formulation, Policy Renewal, facilitation by various Departments, other support in the form of 
programs, hackathons, grand challenges, incubation support, funding support, open data APIs etc. 
All mentioned can be submitted for evaluation. 
5. Details of support and benefits provided to Startups, incubators or other Startup ecosystem 
stakeholders must be part of the policy document and submitted, provided support is during the 
period of consideration. 
6. The beneficiary  list of Startups pertaining to institutional support facilitated by various 
departments is mandated to be submitted. 
7. Budget allocation must be from official government documents for FY 2024-25 and FY 2025-26. 
8. Clearly highlight the specific line items or sub -heads meant for startup promotion and related 
ecosystem activities. 
9. Provide supporting proof that the allocation is active and approved, not just proposed. 
10. If the support provided is in aspects of procurement or any other related support, submission of 
work order is mandated. 
11. A multi-department program will be counted as one program from the government department 
leading the program for States and UTs under Category B.  
12. Details of support provided should include the type of support given by the department, extent 
of support and date of provision. 
13. Details about the existing schemes and policies that have been renewed recently or are under the 
process of renewal. 
14. Response for this Action Point shall be considered for purpose of evaluation only if the benefits 
have been provided to startups and ecosystem stakeholders during the period of consideration. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. Details of the active State Startup Policy, along with the composition, roles, and organizational 
structure of the dedicated team responsible for its implementation. 
2. Activities undertaken to support Startups in collaboration with the Nodal Department shall be 
considered for the purpose of evaluation, given that department- wise details of support provided 
are made available. 
3. Government orders and notifications are not mandatory for Hackathon and other such events. 
4. In addition to Startup specific support in policies, provisions related to ease of doing business, 
infrastructure development and entrepreneurial support can also be submitted. Sector specific 
policies with these provisions can also be submitted, given tha t the beneficiary list of Startups is 
submitted along with. 
5. No specific amount is prescribed; States/UTs may submit their respective financial allocations, 
which will be benchmarked as appropriate budgetary support based on their context and capacity. 
6. Provide context about how this budget is proposed to be used (e.g., funding, capacity building, 
awareness, infrastructure). 
7. Share details of any increases in allocation compared to previous years to show progressive support. 
8. If available, include departmental statements or press notes about the budget focusing on startups. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
2. For development with a progressive and innovative focus 
 
 
 
Questions 
2.1 How many Priority Sectors have been identified in your State/Union Territory? 
2.2 a. How many initiatives (such as schemes or policies) have been launched by the State/UT to 
develop the identified Priority Sectors? 
          b. How many Startups are supported in the identified Priority Sectors?  
2.3 How many Deep Tech and AI-focused initiatives (such as programs, knowledge-sharing 
seminars or roundtables etc.) have been undertaken by the State/UT? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
  
 Absolute Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
  For 
 
  Q2.1: Number of priority 
sectors identified in 
the State/UT  
 
  Q2.2.a: Number of 
initiatives to 
develop the 
identified priority 
sectors  
 
  Q2.2.b: Number of startups 
being supported in 
the identified 
priority sector  
 
  Q2.3.a: Number of Deep 
Tech and AI focused 
initiatives 
undertaken by the 
State/UT 
 
  Q2.3.b: Number of   
startups supported 
through these 
initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
For Q2.1: Max Score – 1 
 
   Category A 
❖ 5-7 sectors = 1 
❖ 3-4 sectors = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ 3-5 sectors = 1 
❖ 1-2 sectors = 0.5 
 
For Q2.2: Max Score – 2 
Metric 2.2.a (1) 
   Category A 
❖ >5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ >2 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-2 initiatives = 0.5 
Metric 2.2.b (1) 
   Category A 
❖ >75 startups = 1 
❖ 50-75 startups = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 25-50 startups = 0.5 
 
For Q2.3: Max Score – 2 
 
Metric 2.3.a (1) 
   Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 3-10 initiatives = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ >5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
 
Metric 2.3.b (1) 
   Category A 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 20-50 startups = 0.5 
 
   Category B 
❖ >30 startups = 1 
❖ 10-30 startups = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 5 
 
 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q2.1: 
• List of identified Priority Sectors within the State / Union Territory. 
• Details of state notification/government order/approval order in public domain outlining possible 

--- PAGE 12 ---
Priority Sectors. 
Q2.2: 
• Details of schemes / policies / initiatives / activities and other support provided to Startups within 
Priority Sectors. 
• Scheme documents, government orders, or official notifications detailing each initiative or policy 
launched for priority sectors. 
• Press releases, official website screenshots, or annual reports highlighting these initiatives. 
• List of beneficiary Startups within the identified Priority Sectors. 
Q2.3: 
• Scheme documents, G.O. or circulars detailing the Deep Tech and AI-focused initiatives or 
programs 
• Agendas, brochures, or reports from knowledge-sharing seminars, workshops, hackathons, or 
conferences conducted. 
• Participant lists or beneficiary lists mentioning startup names supported under each initiative. 
• Collaboration agreements, MoU or partnership documents with industry bodies, academia, or 
global organizations for Deep Tech/AI. 
• Media coverage, photographs, or press releases highlighting these initiatives. 
• Outcome reports detailing the number and type of startups supported. 
   
 
 
       Guidelines 
  Mandatory: 
1. List of all the identified priority sectors.  
2. Official Notification/Government Order to be provided for the purpose of evaluation identifying the 
priority sectors of the State / UT. 
3. States and Union Territories should be able to identify their sectoral, regional and local strengths 
to focus on strategic reforms in these sectors. 
4. States should have a clear definition of which Startups qualify to be a part of Priority Sector, and 
this information should be published in the public domain. 
5. Details of incentives provided to the Startups should entail provision of type of incentive, extent of 
incentive, and date of provision. 
6. Provide official documents (notifications, schemes, or policies) as proof of each initiative. 
7. Clearly indicate the priority sectors covered by each initiative (aligned to those identified by the 
State/UT). 
8. Initiatives must be launched by the State/UT government or its departments.  
9. “Support” can include metrics such as  financial incentives, capacity building, market access 
facilitation, infrastructure support, regulatory assistance or other targeted initiatives undertaken 
by the State/UT.  
10. The beneficiary list of Startups pertaining to support provided is mandated to be submitted. 
11. The incentives provided for evaluation should have been availed during the period of consideration. 
12. Initiatives must be specifically focused on Deep Tech, Artificial Intelligence, or advanced technology 
domains or any other related fields (e.g., robotics, IoT, blockchain, AR/VR, quantum, etc.). 
13. Provide the number of startups directly supported, with supporting documents validating 
participation or benefit. 
14. At least one formal document (policy, circular, scheme, or government order) must reference the 
Deep Tech/AI focus of the initiative. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. A Priority Sector can be identified as a sector within a State or UT that is considered the strength 
of that respective State / UT. Identification of the same will provide an impetus to develop that 
specific sector(s) for the development of the Startup economy of the state. 
2. Priority Sectors (depending on State / UT focus) may include but not limited to Agriculture, 
Handloom & Textile, Chips and Semiconductor, Manufacturing, Fisheries, Food Processing, Oil and 
Gas, Tourism, Deep Tech, FinTech and others. 
3. Startups in Priority Sectors may include Startups generating employment opportunities, innovations 
focused on development in these sectors or other such criteria. 
4. Scheme document(s) covering incentives will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. It is not 
mandatory to include the clause in the State Startup Policy. 
5. Include the date of launch, objectives and scope of each initiative. Provide data on uptake or early 
impact, such as number of startups supported or partnerships facilitated. 
6. Add evidence of stakeholder engagement (consultations, workshops) that informed the design of 
these initiatives. 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
3. Facilitation of grassroot innovation and support to women & young entrepreneurs  
 
 
 
Questions 
3.1 How many startups from Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 districts have been identified and supported 
through State/UT initiatives?  
3.2 Number of initiatives (such as workshops, seminars, speaker sessions or events) undertaken by the 
State/UT to promote startup ecosystem in Aspirational Districts? 
3.3 a.  Number of women-led startups in the State/UT. 
   b. Number of initiatives (such as policies or focused programs) launched by the State/UT aimed 
at supporting women-led startups. 
3.4 Number of initiatives (such as partnerships, sessions or programs ) undertaken by the State/UT 
government to promote startup ecosystem awareness among students in schools and colleges. 
Scoring 
Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  For  
 
  Q3.1: Number of startups from 
Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 
districts and towns 
supported through 
State/UT initiatives 
 
  Q3.2: Number of initiatives 
undertaken by the 
State/UT in Aspirational 
Districts 
 
  Q3.3.a: Total number of 
women-led startups 
 
  Q3.3.b: Number of initiatives 
for supporting women 
entrepreneurs 
 
  Q3.4: Number of initiatives 
conducted by the 
State/UT government in 
schools & colleges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  
For Q3.1: Max Score – 1 
 
  Category A 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 0-50 startups = 0.5 
 
     Category B 
❖ >25 startups = 1 
❖ 0-25 startups = 0.5 
 
  For Q3.2: Max Score – 2 
 
      Category A 
❖ >7 initiatives = 2 
❖ 5-7 initiatives = 1 
❖ 2-4 initiatives = 0.5 
 
     Category B 
❖ >5 initiatives = 2 
❖ 3-5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-3 initiatives = 0.5 
 
  For Q3.3: Max Score – 2 
 
     Metric 3.3.a (1) 
     Category A 
❖ >75 startups = 1 
❖ 50-75 startups = 0.75 
❖ 25-50 startups = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 35-50 startups = 0.75 
❖ 15-35 startups = 0.5 
 
       Metric 3.3.b (1) 
      Category A 
❖ >7 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-7 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 2-4 initiatives = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 3-5 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 1-3 initiatives = 0.5 
 
    For Q3.4: Max Score - 2 
 
     Category A 
❖ >20 initiatives = 2 
❖ 14-20 initiatives = 1 
❖ 8-14 initiatives = 0.5 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 

--- PAGE 14 ---
     Category B 
❖ >10 initiatives = 2 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 2-5 initiatives = 0.5 
Total Score for this Action Point = 7 
 
 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q3.1: 
• Details of categorization of Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 districts and towns.  
• List of all districts with respective categorization in respective State/UT. 
• List of startups/entrepreneurs with location details (Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 regions). 
• Proof of support (grants, incubation, market access, capacity building) given to startups from 
Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 regions (letters, sanction orders, MoUs, event reports). 
• List of case studies or success stories of entrepreneurs or startups from Tier 2, Tier 3, and 
Tier 4 towns/cities that have been supported by the State/UT government, along with the 
names of their respective districts. 
• Startup Registration Data from state platforms and DPIIT-recognised startup database with 
location filters. 
• District-wise/region-wise beneficiary report from state programs. 
• State startup policy documents with schemes targeting smaller cities/rural areas. 
Q3.2: 
• List of aspirational districts in your State/UT.  
• Event reports, agendas and minutes of workshops, seminars, speaker sessions or awareness 
events held in Aspirational Districts. 
• Geo-tagged photos, videos, or media coverage validating the events. 
• Official invitations, G.O. or communications sent to stakeholders and participants. 
• Attendance sheets or participant lists showing representation from the district. 
• Post-event summaries, feedback reports or impact notes prepared by the nodal department or 
partner agencies. 
• Collaboration documents with local institutions, district administration or implementing partners 
for conducting the initiatives. 
Q3.3: 
• List the special incentives provided by State/UT to women-led Startups. 
• Policy or scheme documents covering incentives for women-led Startups. 
• List of unique women-led Startups supported by State / UT and their Districts. 
• List of all women -led Startups in your state / UT registered on Bharat Startup Ecosystem 
Registry. 
Q3.4: 
• Government orders, circulars, or scheme documents detailing initiatives or programs for 
promoting entrepreneurship/startup awareness in educational institutions. 
• Collaboration agreements, or partnership documents with educational boards, universities or 
private organizations. 
• Event agendas, reports, or brochures from workshops, seminars, hackathons, or awareness 
camps held in schools and colleges. 
• Attendance sheets, beneficiary lists, or feedback forms from participating students or 
institutions. 
• Media coverage, photographs, or press releases highlighting these initiatives. 
• Annual activity reports summarizing outreach efforts and the number of sessions/programs 
conducted. 
 
  Guidelines 
  Mandatory: 
1. Official Notification/Government Order to be provided for the purpose of evaluation.   
2. Provide an authentic list clearly identifying district category ( Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 ) based 
on recognized classification. 
3. Include documentary proof of the type and extent of support provided to each startup. 
4. Ensure evidence of location is validated through geo-tagged photographs or documents. 
5. Events must have been conducted within identified Aspirational Districts as per NITI Aayog list. 
6. Provide proof of location (geo-tagged photos or documentation) and purpose of each initiative 
focused on the startup ecosystem. 
7. Clearly describe the format, theme and audience of each event. 
8. States should have a clear definition of who qualifies to be a woman entrepreneur, and this 
information should be published in the public domain. 
9. Details of incentives provided to women -led Startups should entail provision of type of 
incentive, and extent of incentive. 
10. The list of unique women -led Startups supported by State / UT and their Districts should also 
include type of incentive, extent of incentive and date of provision. 
11. The beneficiary list of Startups pertaining to support provided is mandated to be submitted. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
12. The incentives provided for evaluation should have been availed during the period of 
consideration. 
13. “Schools” refer to recognized institutions offering secondary or higher secondary education 
(Classes 9 –12), while “colleges” include degree or diploma -granting institutions offering 
undergraduate or postgraduate education in any stream. 
14. Initiatives must specifically target students in schools and colleges within the State/UT. 
15. Provide documentary evidence showing the purpose, content, and audience of each initiative. 
16. Geo-tagged documentation must confirm that programs were conducted at educational 
institutions. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. Break down the number of supported startups by district and type of support (funding, 
incubation, mentoring, etc.) 
2. Share stakeholder testimonials or feedback from supported startups. 
3. Highlight if specific initiatives or schemes were tailored to promote startups in less urban 
districts. 
4. Mention any partnerships with local academic institutions, incubators, or industry bodies to 
support these startups. 
5. Share details of the number of startups, entrepreneurs, students or ecosystem enablers who 
participated from Aspirational Districts.  
6. Include data on follow -up activities (e.g., mentorship, funding linkages) arising from these 
initiatives. 
7. Highlight partnerships with local incubators, academic institutions, or district administration. 
8. Mention use of local language content or tailored modules to improve inclusivity. 
9. Provide links to official social media posts, website updates, or press releases showcasing these 
events. 
10. Special incentives offered to women-led startups should be notified and should entail at least 
one of the following - Seed funding, Venture funding, Procurement, Incubation support, 
Mentorship, Capacity development workshops, provision of Subsidized loans,  Marketing 
assistance or stipends or grants and more. 
11. Any support either in the form of monetary benefits, incubation or any non -fiscal support 
provided to women entrepreneurs will be considered. 
12. The State / UT can submit the list of women entrepreneurs in a tabular form with information 
like: Name of Startup; Recognition number of Startup; Date of recognition of a Startup by DPIIT 
and / or State; Name, email address, phone number of beneficiaries. 
13. Have they availed any incentives during the period of consideration (Y/N):  If yes, details of 
type of incentive provided like Date of incentive provided, Evidence of incentive provided (for 
example: in case of monetary support provided to the Startup/beneficiary, proof of release of 
funds should be attached as reference). 
14. Scheme document(s) covering incentives will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
15. Share the number of students reached and types of institutions (government, private, 
technical, general). 
16. Include evidence of collaboration with incubators, industry experts or alumni entrepreneurs as 
part of sessions. 
17. Highlight any follow-up support offered to interested students (mentorship, idea competitions, 
innovation clubs). 
18. Provide proof of periodicity (e.g., annual fests, monthly sessions) and sustainability of the 
initiative. 
19. Include links to video content, brochures, or online repositories used to raise awareness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               Reform Area 2: 
               Infrastructure Support 

--- PAGE 17 ---
4. Incubation and Acceleration support 
 
 
 
Questions 
4.1 How many manufacturing and non-manufacturing incubators have been established/upgraded in the 
State/UT? 
4.2 Number of i ncubators and accelerators supported by the State/UT through capacity development 
initiatives? 
4.3 a.  Number of initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to strengthen  Deep Tech capabilities within 
incubators?     
         b.  Number of startups that have benefited from these initiatives.            
4.4 Number of capacity development initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to set up incubators and 
accelerators in Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities?           
    x 
Scoring 
Criteria 
 Absolute Scoring   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
  For 
 
  Q4.1: Number of 
manufacturing and 
non-manufacturing 
incubators 
established 
/upgraded in the 
State/UT during 
the period of 
consideration 
 
 
  Q4.2: Number of 
incubators and 
accelerators 
supported by the 
State/UT through 
capacity 
development 
initiatives  
 
  Q4.3.a: Number of 
initiatives 
undertaken by 
the State/UT to 
strengthen Deep 
Tech capabilities 
within incubation 
centers  
 
  Q4.3.b: Number of 
startups that 
have benefited  
 
  Q4.4: Number of 
initiatives to build 
capacity of 
Incubators and 
Accelerators 
through the 
establishment in 
Tier 2, Tier 3 and 
Tier 4 cities  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q4.1: Max Score - 2 
 
Metric: Manufacturing Incubators (1) 
     Category A 
❖ >10 Incubators = 1 
❖ 6-10 Incubators = 0.75 
❖ 1-5 Incubators = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >6 Incubators = 1 
❖ 3-6 Incubators = 0.75 
❖ 1-2 Incubators = 0.5 
 
Metric: Non-Manufacturing Incubators (1) 
      Category A 
❖ >15 Incubators = 1 
❖ 10-15 Incubators = 0.75 
❖ 1-9 Incubators = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >10 Incubators = 1 
❖ 6-10 Incubators = 0.75 
❖ 1-5 Incubators = 0.5 
  For Q4.2: Max Score – 2 
      Category A 
❖ >25 = 2 
❖ 20-25 = 1 
❖ 15-20 = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >15 = 2 
❖ 10-15 = 1 
❖ 5-10 = 0.5 
  For Q4.3: Max Score – 2 
     Metric 4.3.a (1) 
     Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
        
      Category B 
❖ >6 initiatives = 1 
❖ 3-6 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 1-3 initiatives = 0.5 
 
       Metric 4.3.b (1) 
       Category A 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 40-50 startups = 0.75 
❖ 30-40 startups = 0.5 
 
       Category B 
❖ >30 startups = 1 
❖ 15-30 startups = 0.75 
❖ 5-14 startups = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
 
100% 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
  For Q4.4: Max Score – 1 
        Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
 
        Category B 
❖ >6 initiatives = 1 
❖ 3-6 initiatives = 0.75 
❖ 1-3 initiatives = 0.5 
 
Total Score for this Action Point = 7 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q4.1: 
• List of incubators (manufacturing and non -manufacturing) established or upgraded, along with 
their locations and functional status 
• Government Orders (GO), Sanction Letters, or MoUs related to establishment/upgradation 
• Photographs of facilities (preferably before and after upgradation) 
• Website links or online directories showing incubator listings  
Q4.2:  
• List of incubators and accelerators supported through capacity development initiatives  
• Copies of sanction letters, fund disbursement proofs, or capacity-building event agendas  
• Attendance sheets, event reports, or feedback forms from training sessions 
Q4.3:  
• Details of initiatives to enhance Deep Tech capabilities within incubators (project reports, 
scheme documents, training agendas) 
• List of incubators where Deep Tech initiatives were implemented  
• Proof of implementation (photos of new equipment, lab upgrades, etc.)  
• List of startups that benefited from the above Deep Tech initiatives  
• Testimonials, emails, or acknowledgments from supported startups  
• Proof of benefit (e.g., funding received, mentorship provided, lab access, etc.) 
Q4.4:  
• List of initiatives undertaken to build the capacity of incubators and accelerators in Tier 2, Tier 
3, and Tier 4 cities  
• MoU, sanction letters, training reports, or outreach activity documents for such initiatives  
• Location-wise list or Geographic Information System map showing the city tier classification  
  Guidelines   Mandatory:  
1. Unique lists of State-supported incubators and accelerators to be shared.  
2. Details of specific support provided by Incubators and Accelerators to Startups (E.g., technical 
assistance, workspace, labs, testing zones, etc.) must be shared for the purpose of evaluation. 
3. “Acceleration Programs” are structured initiatives that support early-stage startups through 
mentorship, market access and funding readiness. High-quality acceleration programs in India 
typically offer a cohort-based approach, strong industry linkages, expert-led guidance and a focus 
on helping startups achieve rapid growth and scalability within a defined period.  
4. “Capacity Development” refers to initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to enhance the 
institutional, operational and strategic capabilities of incubators and accelerators. This includes 
efforts such as training of incubator staff, infrastructure upgrades, development of management 
systems, exposure to best practices and provision of tools or resources aimed at improving the 
quality and effectiveness of support provided to startups. 
5. Subsidized Incubation provided by the State government through private incubators will also be 
considered for the purpose of evaluation.  
6. Incubation provided through incubators of other States, subsidized by the State government, will 
also be considered for the purpose of evaluation.  
7. Support provided by the State government should be within the period of consideration, even if the 
program is in progress and results are yet to be declared.  
8. The details of support provided to Startups (E.g., mentorship, free research and development 
facilities, free training, funding, etc.) must be shared for the purpose of evaluation.  
    
  Recommended:  
1. Incubators / Acceleration Centers should be listed on the State Startup Portal along with their 
contact details. Contact details of the State Point of Contact for respective incubators shall also be 
provided for the purpose of evaluation. 
2. Response against this Action Point can also include mention of Startups’ access to research/lab 
assistants to assist Startups with the equipment. 
3. Upcoming capabilities within physical infrastructure can include over and above Advanced 
Operations, 3D Printing, Digital Cutting, Advanced Communications Lab, Advanced Development and 
Testing Labs, Robotics & Unmanned Systems, etc. 
4. Proof of Incubation may include MoU/ Contracts/ self-certification signed with Startups.  
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
5. Infrastructure support in Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 regions 
 
 
Questions 
5.1 How many dedicated initiatives/programs have been undertaken by the State/UT to develop 
infrastructure for startups in Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 regions? 
5.2 Number of districts covered in Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 regions by initiatives or programs to 
develop infrastructure for startups.  
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring Metric 
 
 For 
 
 Q5.1: Number of 
initiatives 
undertaken by the 
State/UT to 
develop 
infrastructure for 
startups in Tier 2, 
Tier 3 and Tier 4 
districts. 
  
 
  Q5.2: Number of 
districts covered in 
Tier 2, Tier 3 and 
Tier 4 regions by 
initiatives or 
programs to 
develop 
infrastructure for 
startups.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q5.1: Max Score - 2 
      
      Category A 
❖ >12 initiatives = 2 
❖ 6-12 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
        
     Category B 
❖ >8 initiatives = 2 
❖ 4-8 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-3 initiatives = 0.5 
  
  For Q5.2: Max Score - 2 
      Category A 
❖ >75 percentage = 2 
❖ 1-75 percentage = 1 
 
       Category B 
❖ >50 percentage = 2 
❖ 1-50 percentage = 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 4 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q5.1:  
• List of infrastructure initiatives/programs undertaken for startups in Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 
districts, along with objectives and locations. 
• Government Orders (GO), Sanction Letters, or Budget Notifications approving the infrastructure 
initiatives. 
• Photos of completed/ongoing infrastructure projects (co -working spaces, incubation buildings, 
etc.) 
Q5.2:  
• District-wise mapping of Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 regions where infrastructure initiatives have been 
implemented. 
• GIS maps or summary tables showing percentage coverage of districts. 
• Any MoU/agreements with local bodies or institutions for infrastructure development. 
 
  
 
Guidelines 
  Mandatory: 
1. Only initiatives located in Tier 2, 3, and 4 regions will be considered.  
2. Infrastructure should be dedicated to supporting startups —generic industrial parks not tailored for 
startups will not be counted. 
3. Each unique location of infrastructure counts as one initiative. 
4. Initiatives must have a clear linkage to startup support through funding access, incubation, mentorship, 
etc. 
5. If initiatives are undertaken in partnership (PPP mode, academic, CSR), documentation must clearly 
show the state's role. 
6. State-owned incubators /startup hubs in Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier  4 regions should be highlighted 
separately. 
7. List of districts where these initiatives are accessible and programs are organized. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. Geo tags can be submitted to show infrastructure facilities. 
2. Include impact metrics where available – number of startups supported, space created, or footfall.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
6. Access to Digital Infrastructure  
 
 
 
Questions 
6.1 How many ecosystem stakeholders (startups, investors, academic institutions, mentors, etc.) are 
registered on the State/UT Startup Portal? 
6.2 Are the following criteria satisfied: 
a. Has the application process for incentive s been made available digitally under the State/UT 
Startup Policy? 
b. Is there a Grievance Redressal Mechanism for Startups to submit their grievances? 
c. Are pages of the website accessible in the local/official language of the State / UT? 
d. Is the website accessible to Persons with Disabilities (PwD)?   
e. Is there any internal dashboard/tracking mechanism to monitor the implementation and 
progress of startup-related schemes and processes initiatives?  
6.3 Does the State/UT have specific initiatives to promote BHASKAR & DPIIT startup recognition 
process? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute and Relative Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring Metric 
 
 For 
 
  Q6.1: Number of 
ecosystem 
stakeholders 
registered on the 
State Startup 
Portal. 
 
  Q6.2: Yes/No 
 
  Q6.3: Yes/No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q6.1: Max Score – 1 
  Relative Scoring based on 
  Categories A and B 
❖ >67 percentile = 1 
❖ 34 – 66 percentiles = 0.75 
❖ 1 - 33 percentile = 0.5 
  
  For Q6.2: Max Score - 3  
(0.6 for each sub-point) 
❖ Yes = 3 (0.6 * 5) 
❖ No = 0 
  For Q6.3: Max Score – 1 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
 
100% 
 
Total Score for this Action Point = 5 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q6.1:  
• List of ecosystem stakeholders (startups, investors, mentors, academic institutions, etc.) 
registered on the State/UT Startup Portal 
• Backend user analytics or dashboard screenshots showing registration data 
Q6.2:  
• Screenshots or URLs showing: 
➢ Online application process for availing incentives 
➢ Grievance Redressal Mechanism (with submission form or contact system) 
➢ Web pages available in the local/official language 
➢ Website accessibility features for Persons with Disabilities (e.g., screen reader support, font 
resizing) 
➢ Internal dashboard or monitoring system for startup schemes and processes 
Q6.3:  
• Circulars, notifications, or communication related to: 
➢ Promotion of the BHASKAR and DPIIT recognition process 
➢ Any initiatives or awareness campaigns held to encourage startup registration 
   
Guidelines 
 
  Mandatory:  
1. Upload screenshots or URLs for each digital feature mentioned. 
2. Ensure that evidence submitted pertains to the official State/UT Startup Portal  or associated 
government sites. 
3. Clearly indicate the count and categories  of registered stakeholders in an Excel sheet or summary 
document. 
4. Highlight whether the portal supports PwD accessibility features  like screen readers, font 
adjustments, and colour contrast options. 
5. Provide public communication proof  (circulars, flyers, mailers) if claiming promotion of 
BHASKAR/DPIIT recognition. 
6. The query portal should be a part of the State Startup portal. 
 
  Recommended:  
1. Include user testimonials or feedback on portal functionality. 
2. Attach website traffic analytics or dashboard snapshots to indicate active usage. 
3. Highlight state-led webinars/workshops to raise awareness of digital features and startup services. 
 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 3: 
Funding Opportunities 

--- PAGE 22 ---
7. Ease of access to funding 
 
 
 
Questions 
7.1 Does the State/UT have the following funding mechanisms in place to support startups: 
a. Seed Fund, Venture Fund, or Fund of Funds established or supported by the State/UT? 
b. Allocation of funds within the above-mentioned mechanisms, with a  priority sector-wise 
breakdown of startup support? 
c. Has the State/UT initiated any special funding provisions (such as loans, grants, funds etc.) for 
startups in collaboration with banking or financial institutions?  
 Scoring 
Criteria 
 
 Absolute Scoring  
 
 
         Scoring  
         Metric 
  
  For 
 
  Q7.1:  
            a: Yes / No 
b: Yes / No 
c: Yes / No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q7.1: Max Score – 3 
 
a. Yes – 1  
No - 0 
 
b. Yes – 1  
No - 0 
 
c. Yes – 1  
No - 0 
 
 
                      
Document                       
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 3 
 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q7.1: 
• List of funds/funding instruments. 
• List of Sanction letters to be provided. 
• Proof of release of funds. 
• Proof of Budget allocation for funds or funding instruments. 
• Proof of the total amount of funds disbursed. 
• List of Guideline Documents for the fund(s), with a mention of focus on Priority sector Startups. 
• List of MoU(s) signed, Agreements, Policy Documents etc. 
• Total number and list of all the AIFs based in the State/UT.   
       
       Guidelines   Mandatory: 
1. The State government should establish funds or continue budget allocation to funds during the 
period of consideration for the purpose of evaluation. 
2. Debit note, Receipt of Acknowledgement letter, Office order and bank statements which certify 
the amount transferred or NEFT/RTGS receipts shall be submitted as proof of release of funds, 
which is mandatory. 
3. Incase bank statements/NEFT/RTGS receipts/Office order are provided as a proof of release of fund, 
then beneficiary fund name shall be mentioned clearly. 
4. The type of fund (newly established/supported) shall be mentioned supported with 
GO/Notifications, MoU/operation guidelines with the date of establishment of fund. 
5. In case priority sector focused funds have been created in the State Startup ecosystem, the State/UT 
must submit the relevant policy or scheme document for the purpose of evaluation. 
7. Priority Sector specific funds should have been supported/established during the period of 
consideration for the purpose of evaluation. 
8. Following milestones to be reported: Operating guidelines for a fund designed and approved; Budget 
allocated or Budget proof of budget disbursement; MoU; GO or notifications. 
9. States/UTs should provide details of any special funding provisions created to support startups, such 
as dedicated loans, government grants, or funds, especially those launched in collaboration with 
banking or financial institutions. This may include initiatives like debt-free loans, credit guarantee 
schemes or similar instruments aimed at improving access to finance for startups. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. The various stages of a Startups’ life cycle could include Prototype Creation, Product Development, 
Product launch, Raw Material & Equipment, and so on. 
2. If the State has previously established a fund, the government should allocate at least INR 2.5 crore 
for Category ‘A’ and INR 1 crore for Category ‘B’ to support the fund during the period of 
consideration. 
3. Special funding provisions could include loans, capital, grants or funding aids. 
4. State/UT working in collaboration with institutions like (not limited to) SIDBI would be considered 
for the purpose of evaluation. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
8. Funding through state supported funds or mechanisms 
 
 
 
Questions 
8.1 How many startups have received funding (including any kind of government grants) through State-
supported funds or financial mechanisms? 
8.2 a. Percentage of funds disbursed out of the total funds allocated for startups. 
    b. What is the average time taken to disburse funds to startups from the date of application under 
each funding mechanism?  
Scoring 
Criteria 
    
   Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
  For 
 
  Q8.1: Startups that have 
received funding through 
any state supported 
financial mechanisms. 
 
  Q8.2.a: Percentage of Funds 
disbursed out of the total 
funds allocated to 
startups. 
 
  Q8.2.b: Average time taken 
to disburse the fund to 
the startups from the 
date of application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Score 
  For Q8.1: Max Score - 2 
   Category A 
❖ >150 startups = 2 
❖ 51-150 startups = 1 
❖ 20-50 startups = 0.5 
 Category B 
❖ >100 startups = 2 
❖ 51-100 startups = 1 
❖ 10-50 startups = 0.5 
  For Q8.2: Max Score - 2 
Metric 8.2.a (1) 
        Category A and B 
❖ More than 50% of total 
funds disbursed = 1 
❖ 25-50% of total funds 
disbursed = 0.5 
  Metric 8.2.b (1) 
        Category A and B 
❖ 0-6 months = 1 
❖ 7-12 months = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 4 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q8.1: 
• Sanction letters or GO (signed by a senior government official) to be provided. 
• List of Startups funded (Startups’ details like incorporation number, recognition date, details of 
representative, etc.to be provided) along with the disbursed funding amount. 
• Proof of release of funds (bank transaction details with beneficiary names). 
• Also provide the total amount of funds disbursed.  
• Scheme documents / government orders / guidelines for each funding mechanism implemented by 
the State/UT. 
• Fund utilization certificates (UCs) or audited statements showing the actual funds disbursed to 
startups. 
Q8.2:  
• Scheme-wise / program-wise summary reports detailing allocated vs. disbursed amounts. 
• Sanction orders or approval letters confirming fund disbursement to individual startups. 
• Bank statements or transaction proof (with sensitive details redacted) validating disbursement. 
• Minutes of meetings or official notes approving fund release. 
• Consolidated summary statement certified by the finance/accounts department of the nodal 
agency. 
• Summary table showing average disbursement time (in days) for each scheme/type of fund. 
• Startup-wise fund disbursement records showing: Date of application; Date of approval; Date of 
actual fund disbursement.  
• Flowchart or SOP of disbursement process detailing steps, timelines, responsible authorities, and 
mode of disbursal (online, direct benefit transfer, etc.). 
• Reports from online fund management portals (if applicable), validating time tracking. 
• Kindly provide a detailed breakup by scheme or type of fund, along with the key steps involved in 
the disbursement process.  
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
  Guidelines   Mandatory: 
1. The date of the fund’s disbursement shall be within the Period of Consideration. 
2. Debit note, Receipt  of Acknowledgement  letter and bank statements which certify the amount 
transferred or NEFT/RTGS receipts shall be submitted as proof of release of funds. 
3. Incase bank statements/NEFT/RTGS receipts are provided as a proof of release of fund, then mapping 
of the Startup names with individual beneficiary mentioned in the statement shall be provided. 
4. The minimum funding amount should be ₹5 Lakh per Startup (for Category A) and ₹2 Lakh per Startup 
(for Category B) over the period of consideration. 
5. For evaluation, States and UTs should submit a list of state registered startups bifurcated into four 
stages (Ideation Stage, Validation Stage, Early Traction Stage, Scale-up Stage). 
6. Non-duplicity of Startups to be ensured in the list submitted (incorporation number and registration 
date shall be provided). 
7. States must submit scheme-wise breakup for each funding mechanism (e.g., seed fund, marketing 
assistance, product development grant, etc.). 
8. Average disbursement time must be calculated as: Date of actual disbursement – Date of startup’s 
formal application. 
9. Clearly indicate the total funds allocated (scheme-wise or consolidated) and the actual funds 
disbursed during the assessment period. 
10. Provide documentary proof from government records (budget documents, UCs, audited reports) to 
support the figures. 
11. Ensure figures are certified by the State/UT nodal department or authorized finance/accounts 
official. 
12. State should provide startup-wise records (at least sample data if volume is large) to validate the 
average timeline. 
13. Each funding mechanism must include a step-by-step disbursement process and highlight responsible 
departments/agencies. 
14. For the average time taken to disburse funds, it is recommended that disbursal be completed within 
the frame mentioned in the scoring criteria.  
15. Provide a breakup by scheme/type of fund, along with key steps involved in the disbursement 
process. 
 
  Recommended: 
1.  Seed funding in the form of a direct government grant, monthly sustenance allowance, 
commercialization assistance, and interest subsidy on loans provided directly to Startups and/or 
through incubators may be considered. 
2. Startups funded from Venture Fund(s) or Fund of Funds supported by the State Government along 
with the funding amount and date of disbursement may be considered. 
3. Organizing State supported Startup events and providing funding in the form of cash awards to the 
winning Startups at these events may be considered subject to the following conditions:  A publicly 
available Guideline document outlining a mechanism for regularly conducting  such Startup events 
and providing funding to Startups in the form of cash awards should be provided. 
4. The extent of Cash grants available and application procedure should be part of the guideline 
document. 
5. States must include funding mechanisms from State-run schemes only.  
6. Highlight process improvements (e.g., online applications, single -window systems) that reduced 
disbursement time. 
7. Include year-wise breakup if data spans multiple financial years. 
8. Mention reasons for partial utilization, if applicable (e.g., pending applications, ongoing evaluation). 
9. Provide details of the number of startups that received funds from the disbursed amount. 
10. Highlight process improvements undertaken to ensure timely fund disbursement. 
11. Reference any third-party audit or review report, if available. 
12. Mention any TAT (Turnaround Time) benchmarks set by the State or nodal agency. 
13. If delays occurred, states may provide a brief note on bottlenecks and resolution steps taken. 
14. Showcase use of technology platforms or dashboards  (e.g., fund tracking, startup -facing portals, 
automated intimation, DBT integration) to streamline funding. 
 
  

--- PAGE 25 ---
9. Support in fundraising initiatives 
 
 
 
Questions 
9.1 How many programs or events with pitching sessions have been conducted by the State/UT to 
promote:  
a. Investor Engagement (e.g., angel networks, VCs, banks, HNI sensitization) 
b. Participation of Startups  
9.2 How many successful connections have been facilitated between startups and investors through 
State/UT-led initiatives or partnerships? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring Metric 
  
 For 
  
  Q9.1.a: Number of 
Engagements 
with Investors  
 
    Q9.1.b: Number of    
startups that 
participated  
 
  Q9.2: Number of 
successful 
connections 
established 
between startups 
and investors 
through State/UT-
led initiatives or 
partnerships 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
 
  For Q9.1: Max Score – 2 
Metric 9.1.a (1) 
            Category A 
❖ >10 engagements = 1 
❖ 5-10 engagements = 0.5 
 
Category B 
❖ >5 engagements = 1 
❖ 3-5 engagements = 0.5 
Metric 9.1.b (1) 
            Category A 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 20-50 startups = 0.5 
 
Category B 
❖ >10 startups = 1 
❖ 5-10 startups = 0.5 
 
  For Q9.2: Max Score - 2  
Category A 
❖ >50 connects = 2 
❖  25-50 connects =1  
     
      Category B 
❖ >25 connects = 2 
❖ 10-25 connects = 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 4 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q9.1: 
• Guideline document highlighting incentives for angel (individual/group/ network) investments. 
• List of Events/programs and knowledge sessions conducted with reports and records of discussion. 
• Proof of MoU(s) with fund managers. 
• List of total investors. 
• List of startups facilitated by investors. 
• Proof of funds from investors to Startups. 
• Evidence of participation by startups. 
• List of engagement initiatives conducted with investors. 
• Event reports, agendas and attendance lists from State/UT-led pitching sessions, demo days, 
investor meets or roadshows. 
Q9.2: 
• List mapping successful connections facilitated between startups and investors. 
• Geo-tagged photographs or videos from the facilitation events. 
• Press releases, media coverage, or official social media posts highlighting the facilitated connections 
or funding raised. 
• Testimonials or feedback forms from startups or investors acknowledging the connection facilitated. 
• Summary report prepared by the nodal agency detailing number of successful connections and brief 
outcomes. 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---
   
    Guidelines Mandatory: 
1. Provide number of state initiatives aimed at promoting access to angel funding, equity financing or 
debt financing for startups.  
2. State-supported programs at institutions or incubators to provide a platform to connect Investors or 
Investor Networks with Startups will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
3. Any programs or initiatives which facilitate dedicated conversation or pitching between investors 
and Startup will be considered. 
4. The list of Startups and Investors which participated in the state initiatives shall be mapped with 
the respective programs/initiatives. 
5. State / UT organizing or partnering in related Startup India initiatives will be considered for the 
purpose of evaluation. 
6. In case of virtual sessions/workshops, screenshots and URL link to be provided. 
7. Successful connect is defined as a Startup reaching the due diligence stage with an investor and 
testimonials must be submitted from the Startups (could be screenshots of emails/documents or 
videos).  
8. The connections must be facilitated directly through State/UT -led initiatives, programs, or formal 
partnerships (not purely private efforts). 
9. Documentary evidence must clearly establish that the State/UT nodal team played an active 
facilitation role. 
10. Provide a list of successfully matched startups and investors, with proof of interaction or follow-up. 
Recommended: 
1. The state could conduct workshops/ networking events for awareness regarding State/UT 
interventions in this regard with High -Net-Worth Individuals (HNIs), industrialists, angel investors, 
angel networks etc. 
2. Virtual workshops will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
3. Share details of any subsequent funding, term sheets or investment discussions that arose from these 
connections (without disclosing sensitive terms). 
4. Include evidence of collaborations with investors. 
5. Provide year-wise breakup and type of investors engaged.  
6. Highlight sector focus (e.g., deep-tech, social impact), if available.  
7. Mention any continued support or mentoring provided post-connection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 4: 
Market Access & Reach

--- PAGE 28 ---
10. Market access opportunity provided to startups through Public Procurement 
 
 
 
Questions 
10.1 Number of tenders/RFPs floated by the State/UTs/PSUs that allowed the participation of Startups 
through relaxations. 
10.2 Number of startups that have been awarded work orders/purchase orders in Aspirational Districts.  
10.3 How many market access opportunities (in the forms of pilot projects, product procurement, 
tenders, work orders or purchase orders) have been facilitated for startups by the State/UT in 
identified priority sectors? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
 Absolute and Relative Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring Metric 
 
  For  
 
  Q10.1: Number of 
Tenders/RFPs 
floated that 
allowed the 
participation of 
startups through 
relaxation. 
 
  Q10.2.a: Number of 
Startups 
awarded 
purchase or 
work orders. 
 
  Q10.2.b: Number of 
districts where 
Startups were 
provided 
purchase or 
work orders. 
 
  Q10.3: Number of 
market access 
opportunities 
facilitated for 
startups within 
the identified 
priority sectors.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q10.1: Max Score - 2 
Relative Scoring based on  
Category A and B 
❖ >66 percentile = 1 
❖ 1-66 percentile = 0.5 
 
  For Q10.2: Max Score – 2 
 
Metric 10.2.a (1) 
Relative Scoring based on  
Category A and B 
❖ >50 percentile = 1 
❖ 1-50 percentile = 0.5 
 
Metric 10.2.b (1) 
Category A 
❖ >75 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-75 percentage = 0.5 
      
 Category B 
❖ >50 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-50 percentage = 0.5 
 
  For Q10.3: Max Score – 1 
Category A 
❖ >10 opportunities = 1 
❖ 5-10 opportunities = 0.5 
Category B 
❖ >5 opportunities = 1 
❖ 1-5 opportunities = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
 
100% 
 
Total Score for this Action Point = 5 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q10.1: 
• List of RFPs/tender documents where relaxations have been provided to Startups. 
• List of GO/Notifications for relaxation. 
• Links of where tender document has been published.  
• List of beneficiary Startups that have been awarded work-orders. 
Q10.2: 
• List of Aspirational Districts where Startups were provided purchase or work orders. 
• Amount of Work Order that has been awarded and Copies of Tenders, POs and WOs issued to 
startups. 
• Consolidated summary statement listing: Tender/PO/WO number, issuing department/agency, 
startup name, sector, date and value. 
• Geo-tagged documentation or business address proof validating that the work was executed in 
Aspirational Districts. 
• Payment confirmation documents, utilization certificates or transaction proofs.  
• Annual Reports highlighting procurement from startups. 
Q10.3: 
• Media coverage or press releases (if any) showcasing procurement from startups in priority 
sectors. 
• Copies of tender documents, work orders, purchase orders, or pilot project sanction letters 
awarded to startups in identified priority sectors. 
• List of startups supported, mentioning sector alignment, type of opportunity (pilot, tender, 
procurement etc.) and date awarded. 
• Notifications or official communications from the nodal department highlighting the facilitation 
effort. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
  Guidelines   Mandatory:  
1. State response against this Action Point shall be considered for purpose of evaluation only if 
Government has issued GO or notification of outlining exemptions for Startups from public 
procurement. 
2. RFPs where exemptions have been provided are mandatory for the purpose of evaluation. 
3. Public procurement exemptions in the State Startup policy (even if notified) only, shall not be 
considered. 
4. A list of Startups awarded work orders through any State government procurement processes will be 
considered for evaluation, including Limited tenders, single tenders, electronic reverse auctions, 
amongst others. 
5. State or UT should provide purchase orders or work orders to Startups through a transparent 
mechanism. 
6. For work orders received through GeM, only the work orders by the States’ government would 
be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
7. Copies of purchase orders or work orders provided shall be issued during the Period of Consideration. 
8. Non-duplicity of startups to be ensured. 
9. Minimum value of work-order or purchase-order should be ₹1,00,000 per Startup. 
10. Only count pilot projects, product procurement, tenders, work orders or purchase orders  awarded 
directly to startups in officially identified priority sectors notified by the State/UT. 
11. Orders must be awarded specifically to startups, and the work must be executed within Aspirational 
Districts as identified by NITI Aayog. 
12. Provide clear evidence that the beneficiary entity (department/agency) belongs to the State/UT 
government or its PSUs. 
13. Documentary proof must show the startup name, value of order and district location. 
14. Startups supported must be clearly linked to priority sectors as officially defined by the State/UT 
(with reference to policy or government order). 
15. Provide the total (combined) value of orders facilitated for startups, along with a sector -wise 
breakdown. 
16. Supporting documents must include at least one government -issued document listing the priority 
sectors (could be a policy, circular or notification). 
 
  Recommended:  
1. A list of Startups awarded work orders through any State government procurement processes will be 
considered for evaluation, including limited tenders, single tenders, electronic reverse auctions, 
amongst others. 
2. Relaxations provided to Startups may include the relaxed criteria in ‘Prior Experience’, ‘Prior 
turnover’, or ‘Submission of EMD’ or any other relaxations offered to the Startups as a part of the 
pre-qualification criteria/others. 
3. Where a tender document is floated through GeM, the link for GeM tender to be shared  along with 
the GeM bidding documents along with the work order/contract issued to the Startup. 
4. List of Startups awarded work orders as a part of programs such as Buyer -Seller Meets, Demo or 
Demand Days, Grand Challenges or Hackathons, Innovation Zones, and/or  any other innovative 
product showcase opportunity may also be considered for this Action Point. 
5. List of State registered Startups awarded work orders by the State government through  GeM Portal 
will also be considered for the purpose of evaluation. The copy of the contract/result declaration on 
GeM portal to be submitted. 
6. Share year-wise breakup and monetary valuation of awarded orders  including brief description of 
the nature of work or service provided by the startup. 
7. Provide geo-tagged photos, media coverage or case studies highlighting the impact in Aspirational 
Districts. 
8. Highlight whether these orders were part of special procurement drives or reserved procurement 
for startups. 
9. Summarize any capacity building or outreach efforts that led to these awards. 
10. Priority sectors may align with areas  already identified by the State/UT Government  such as 
agriculture, health, education, clean energy, rural development, IT/AI, manufacturing, tourism, 
etc. 
11. States may include examples of flagship procurement initiatives (e.g., startup challenge -based 
procurement, innovation calls, etc.). 
12. Provide data on number of unique startups supported through these orders. 
13. Include details on the type of procurement (e.g., pilot projects, product procurement , service 
contracts). 
14. Highlight outcomes or impact stories if available (e.g., improved service delivery, cost efficiency, 
local employment). 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
11.  Access to Domestic and International Market Opportunities and Partnerships 
 
 
 
Questions 
11.1 a. Number of initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to facilitate market linkages for startups 
through local businesses, corporates or domestic partnerships  including in the Public-Private 
Partnership (PPP) model.  
            b. Number of startups that have benefited.  
11.2 a. Number of initiatives (e.g., MoU, programs, pitching, event showcases etc.) that the 
State/UT has entered with global stakeholders to support the startup ecosystem? 
            b. Number of startups that have benefited.  
     Scoring 
     Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring Metric 
  
 For  
 
  Q11.1.a: Number of 
initiatives that 
have been 
implemented to 
support startup 
ecosystem by 
providing market 
linkages 
opportunities 
 
  Q11.1.b: Number of 
startups that 
have benefited  
 
  Q11.2.a: Number of 
initiatives that 
have been 
facilitated by the 
State/UT with 
international 
stakeholders to 
support the 
startup 
ecosystem 
 
  Q11.2.b: Number of 
startups that have 
benefited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q11.1: Max Score – 2 
 
Metric 11.1.a (1) 
Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 0.5 
 
           Category B 
❖ >5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 3-5 initiatives = 0.5 
 
 
Metric 11.1.b (1) 
 
                      Category A 
❖ >50 startups = 1 
❖ 25-50 startups = 0.5 
 
           Category B 
❖ >30 startups = 1 
❖ 10-30 startups = 0.5 
 
  For Q11.2: Max Score – 2 
 Metric 11.2.a (1) 
                     Category A 
❖ >25 initiatives = 1 
❖ 10-25 initiatives = 0.5 
           
                     Category B 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 0.5 
 
Metric 11.2.b (1) 
 
           Category A 
❖ >25 startups = 1 
❖ 15-25 startups = 0.5 
  
           Category B 
❖ >15 startups = 1 
❖ 5-15 startups = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 4 
 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q11.1: 
• Provide details of initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to facilitate market linkages for startups, 
including collaborations with local businesses, corporates, or domestic partnerships. 
• Provide details of PPP initiatives with private players (incubators, accelerators, corporate partners, industry 
associations, investors). 
• Notification/order/document showing the objective, duration, and terms of engagement under the PPP. 
• Summary list of PPPs implemented – including partner name, scope of work, year of initiation, and type of 
support (infra, funding, mentorship, etc.). 
• Evidence of implementation – progress reports, outcomes achieved, or utilization summaries (if applicable). 
• Circulars, guidelines, or event documents for market linkage initiatives (e.g., Startup Connect 
programs, B2B meets, vendor onboarding drives). 
• Evidence of partnerships with corporates or industry networks for domestic market access. 
• Beneficiary list of startups with type of market linkage (e.g., MoU signed, product piloted, vendor 
empanelment). 

--- PAGE 31 ---
• Event reports, press notes, participation certificates, or feedback collected from startups and 
business partners. 
Q11.2: 
• Copies of signed MoUs, agreements or partnership documents with global stakeholders (e.g., foreign 
governments, embassies, accelerators, VCs, corporations, trade bodies, multilateral agencies, 
global incubators, foreign universities etc.). 
• Official notifications or press releases issued by the State/UT government or nodal agency 
announcing these initiatives. 
• List of initiatives undertaken, mentioning name of partner, country, objective, and date of 
commencement. 
• Reports, presentations or event documents highlighting activities carried out under these initiatives 
(e.g., pitching sessions, delegations, showcases). 
• Event reports, press releases, or joint program brochures evidencing partnership activation. 
• List of startups that benefited through exchange programs, soft landing, global mentorship, 
exposure trips, or cross-border pilots. 
• Evidence of participation (e.g., selection letter, participation certificate, startup feedback) for 
each supported startup. 
  Guidelines  Mandatory: 
1. Formally signed and active engagements including PPPs (Agreements/MoU /Contracts) that have 
been implemented should be considered. 
2. PPPs must be aligned to supporting the startup ecosystem – e.g., through setting up incubators, 
running accelerator programs, offering funding or mentorship. 
3. Agreements must include defined roles and responsibilities for both public and private 
stakeholders. 
4. Provide minimum two forms of evidence: the agreement and a record of implementation. 
5. Market linkage efforts must be facilitated or co-led by the State/UT nodal agency. 
6. Only formalized or executed initiatives will be considered – not proposals or conceptual events. 
7. States must share the number of unique startups that received direct market access and provide 
evidence of participation or transaction. 
8. Submit supporting documents that show real engagement with local corporates, MSMEs, or sector-
specific industry bodies. 
9. Agreements must be formally signed with international stakeholders and implemented. 
10. Only partnerships resulting in actual benefits to startups should be counted. 
11. States may include impact stories or startup testimonials showing successful outcomes from 
domestic linkage efforts. 
12. Initiatives must be formal and documented (MoU, agreement, program note or official record). 
13. Partners must be a global stakeholder: foreign government, international agency, global VC, 
accelerator, corporate, trade body etc. 
14. Clearly mention objective, scope, and date of signing or execution. 
15. Clearly list the number of startups that received direct benefits under each global partnership 
(e.g., 20 startups participated in Dubai Soft Landing Program). 
16. Submit both the MoU and post-MoU implementation records as evidence. 
 
 Recommended: 
1. Include PPPs across diverse models – CSR-funded incubators, co -branded innovation hubs, PPP -
managed grant schemes, etc. 
2. Highlight success metrics – number of startups supported, funding raised, or pilot projects 
facilitated. 
3. Partnerships with industry bodies or corporates may be emphasized. 
4. Provide visuals, news articles, or testimonials (if available) to validate implementation and 
outcomes. 
5. Include partnership-driven platforms like demo days, procurement expos, innovation challenges, 
and cohort-based B2B engagements. 
6. Highlight sectors where State startups received pilot opportunities or long-term vendor roles. 
7. Mention any handholding, matchmaking, or onboarding support provided to ensure uptake. 
8. Provide year -wise breakups and details of follow -up activities (delegations, pitching events, 
showcases etc.). 
9. Include evidence of startups benefiting from these initiatives (number supported, type of support, 
country of partner). 
10. Highlight media coverage, success stories or impact reports linked to these collaborations. 
11. Specify if these initiatives align with priority sectors identified by the State/UT. 
12. Document any capacity building or mentorship elements included for startups under these 
partnerships. 
13. Global partners may also include foreign embassies, multilateral bodies (e.g., GIZ, UNDP), 
international incubators, or foreign startup agencies.  
14. Highlight key benefits such as international exposure, investor connect , product localization 
support, or export enablement. 
15. If startups receive grants, acceleration, or pilot access abroad, states may provide brief notes or 
media coverage. 
16. Emphasize programs aligned with India’s bilateral innovation initiatives or trade delegations. 
  

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
12. Facilitating Ease of Doing Business for Startups through Trusted Partner & Green Channel 
mechanisms 
 
 
 
Questions 
12.1 Has the State/UT undertaken any initiatives, policies or programs aligned with a “Trusted 
Partner” approach that establishes a green channel for DPIIT-recognized and/or State-
registered startups, with the objective of fast-tracking approvals and promoting ease of doing 
business? 
12.2 What is the average time taken by the State/UT to process key approvals, clearances and 
registrations for DPIIT-recognized startups, and how does it compare with the standard 
processing time for other entities? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
  For 
  
  Q12.1: Yes / No 
 
  Q12.2: Provide detailed 
information on the 
average time taken to 
process key approvals and 
clearances for DPIIT 
recognized startups by 
comparing it to the 
standard processing time 
for other entities in the 
ecosystem. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
   
  For Q12.1: Max Score – 1 
   
  For Q12.2: Max Score – 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
 
100% 
 
Total Score for this Action Point = 2 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q12.1: 
• Government Order / Notification / Circular / Scheme document clearly outlining the “Trusted 
Partner” approach, green channel or any fast-track mechanism for DPIIT-recognized / State-
registered startups. 
• Document describing processes or SOPs for expedited approvals, clearances or registrations 
applicable to startups. 
• List of departments/agencies implementing the fast-track mechanism, along with the scope of 
services covered. 
• Records or Reports showing number of startups that have availed the green channel or fast-tracking 
benefits. 
• Feedback, testimonials or case examples of startups that have benefited from these initiatives. 
• Process flowcharts, internal departmental guidelines or workflow documents demonstrating how 
applications from recognized startups are prioritized. 
Q12.2: 
• Reports, dashboards, or official records showing actual processing time for key approvals and 
clearances (e.g., trade license, building plan approval, pollution NOC, factory license, labour 
registration, etc.) during the assessment period. 
• Documented process note / SOP / notification specifying differentiated timelines for DPIIT-
recognized startups vs. other entities. 
• Comparative analysis / report highlighting average timelines separately for DPIIT-recognized 
startups and for other entities. 
• List of key approvals and clearances covered under the fast-track mechanism or reduced timeline 
framework. 
• Testimonials, case studies or sample applications showing expedited approvals granted to startups. 
       Guidelines   Mandatory:   
1. The “Trusted Partner” policy in this context would be a recognition and facilitation framework 
aimed at incentivizing and publicly acknowledging States/UTs that proactively enable fast-tracking 
of regulatory and administrative approvals for DPIIT-recognized startups. 
2. A “Trusted Partner State/UT” can be one that offers a Green Channel Mechanism — i.e., simplified, 
time-bound and startup-friendly processes — for various approvals, licenses, NOCs or compliance 
requirements that startups typically face 
3. Initiative must be formally notified or documented through a policy, order, circular or scheme. 
4. Should specifically mention fast-tracking / green channel / priority processing for DPIIT-recognized 
and/or State-registered startups. 
5. Provide evidence of implementation and actual usage by startups (data, reports, or beneficiary 
list). 
6. Provide clear evidence of average processing time for startups vs. others, backed by official data 
or system-generated reports. 
7. Data must relate to DPIIT-recognized startups specifically, not just general MSMEs or businesses. 
8. Identify and mention the key approvals and clearances considered for this comparison. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
  Recommended:  
1. Include data on average reduction in processing time due to fast-tracking. 
2. Share details on coverage across departments.  
3. Include awareness material or communication sent to startups about the availability of this green 
channel. 
4. Provide examples of specific services covered under the fast -track mechanism (e.g., approvals, 
clearances, inspections, incentives). 
5. Highlight coordination between the Startup Cell and other departments for operationalizing this 
mechanism. 
6. Include time breakup to show consistency in faster processing. 
7. Highlight percentage reduction in time or improvement achieved over the previous year. 
8. Share feedback from startups on the effectiveness of faster processing. 
9. Describe how the nodal department monitors and coordinates with other departments to ensure 
faster timelines. 
10. If possible, illustrate using process flow diagrams to demonstrate streamlined approval paths for 
startups. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 5: 
Ecosystem Capacity Building 

--- PAGE 35 ---
13. Capacity Building of State/UT Government Departments on the Startup Ecosystem  
 
 
 
Questions 
13.1 Number of sensitization workshops/programs that have been conducted for Startup Nodal 
Agency and other relevant government departments on the startup ecosystem of India? 
13.2 Number of capacity building programs focused on Tier 2, Tier 3 and Tier 4 districts.  
13.3 Total number of government officials trained through these capacity building initiatives.    
Scoring 
Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring 
Metric 
  
 For  
 
  Q13.1: Number of 
sensitization 
workshops / 
programs 
conducted 
towards a focus 
on the startup 
ecosystem.  
  Q13.2: Number of 
capacity 
building 
programs 
focused 
especially on 
Tier 2, Tier 3 
and tier 4 
districts. 
  Q13.3: Total 
number of 
government 
officials 
trained 
through 
these 
capacity 
building 
initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
   
  For Q13.1: Max Score - 1 
        Category A 
❖ >10 workshops = 1 
❖ 5-10 workshops = 0.5 
        Category B 
❖ >5 workshops = 1 
❖ 1-5 workshops = 0.5 
     
  For Q13.2: Max Score - 1 
        Category A 
❖ >10 programs = 1 
❖ 5-10 programs = 0.5 
        Category B 
❖ >5 programs = 1 
❖ 1-5 programs = 0.5 
   
  For Q13.3: Max Score - 1 
        Category A 
❖ >75 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-75 percentage = 0.5 
      
        Category B 
❖ >50 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-50 percentage = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 3 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q13.1: 
• List of sensitization workshops/programs conducted for Startup Nodal Agency and other 
departments with date, topic, and target audience 
• Event reports, invitations, agendas, or training material used in the workshops 
• Photographs, attendance sheets, or feedback forms from the sessions 
Q13.2: 
• List of capacity-building programs specifically conducted in Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 districts, 
along with location details 
• Sanction letters, partner agreements and program brochures  
Q13.3:  
• Cumulative list of government officials trained through these initiatives, categorized by 
department and district  
• Attendance records, registration forms, and post-training feedback or assessment reports 
 
   
 
 
 
Guidelines 
   
  Mandatory: 
1. Virtual workshops or webinars or sessions will also be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
2. In case of virtual workshops, a summary report detailing workshop name, date, duration, 
participants, and a Record of Discussion to be shared. 
3. The summary report should include the impact of these workshops. 
4. Each initiative must have a documented agenda and list of attendees, including names, departments, 
and designations. 
5. Programs should be aimed at improving ecosystem governance, implementation, or innovation capacity. 
6. Must include district-wise list of trained officials and departments involved (e.g., District Industries 
Centre, Rural Development, Education, etc.). 
  Recommended: 
1. Each workshop can cover at least one of the following topics: Policy and regulations related to 
Startup ecosystem in India OR Startup India Session on benefits OR Role of State government to 

--- PAGE 36 ---
encourage entrepreneurship OR National and Global Best Practices OR Innovative solutions for Dept. 
specific problems. 
2. Geo-tagged documentation to validate the Tier 2/3/4 district location (e.g., event photos with 
location metadata, GIS-based MIS, or certificates issued by district administration). 
3. Highlight any collaborations with national training institutes (e.g., ATI, LBSNAA, IIPA) for these 
workshops. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 
14. State/UT-supported initiatives to sensitize ecosystem enablers 
 
 
Questions 
14.1 Number of capacity development initiatives conducted to sensitize startups in the State/UT.  
14.2 Number of mentors who provide mentorship support to startups, as facilitated by the State/UT 
government.  
14.3 Number of capacity development programs conducted or supported to sensitize other ecosystem 
enablers in the State/UT (such as Mentors, Investors etc.)  
14.4 Has the State/UT participated in any State’s Startup Ranking Workshop s conducted by Startup 
India? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
 Relative Scoring and Absolute Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
   
  For 
   
  Q14.1: Number of 
capacity 
development 
initiatives 
conducted to 
sensitize startups 
in the State/UT 
 
  Q14.2: Number of 
mentors providing 
mentorship 
support to 
startups as 
facilitated by the 
State/UT 
government  
 
  Q14.3: Number of 
initiatives to build 
capacity for other 
ecosystem 
enablers.  
 
  Q14.4: Yes / No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q14.1: Max Score – 2 
 
                  Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 2 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 1 
    
Category B 
❖ >5 initiatives = 2 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 1 
 
  For Q14.2: Max Score – 1 
 
       Category A 
❖ >80 mentors = 1 
❖ 1-80 mentors = 0.5 
 
      Category B 
❖ >40 mentors = 1 
❖ 1-40 mentors = 0.5 
  For Q14.3: Max Score – 1 
    
         Category A 
❖ >10 initiatives = 1 
❖ 5-10 initiatives = 0.5 
 
         Category B  
❖ >5 initiatives = 1 
❖ 1-5 initiatives = 0.5 
 
  For Q14.4: Max Score – 1 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 5 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q14.1: 
• Calendar/schedule of capacity development sessions/workshops conducted to sensitize startups, 
including session dates, agenda, and target audience  
• Attendance sheets, photos, feedback forms, and training materials used in these programs  
Q14.2: 
• Verified list of mentors actively engaged with startups under State/UT-facilitated mentorship 
schemes, including: 
➢ Name, sector expertise, district/location, and number of mentees  
➢ MoU, empanelment letters, or onboarding documentation for mentors  
➢ Session-wise mentor engagement reports or digital interaction proofs (e.g., Zoom logs, 
WhatsApp screenshots, event flyers) 
Q14.3: 
• List of sensitization or capacity-building initiatives for ecosystem enablers (investors, mentors, 
incubators, academia, etc.), with details like: 
➢ Type of enabler targeted 
➢ Session date, theme and outcome  
Q14.4: 
• Communication/email screenshots, attendance records, or official correspondence confirming 
participation in Startup India’s State Ranking Workshops 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
 
   
 
 
 
        Guidelines 
 
  Mandatory: 
1. Submit a consolidated list of all sensitization initiatives for startups and ecosystem enablers 
conducted during the assessment period, with dates and participant types. 
2. For mentor count: 
3. Share an official list of active mentors, preferably with signed engagement/association documents. 
4. Avoid duplication — count each mentor once, even if involved in multiple programs. 
5. Clearly define which initiatives were targeted at ecosystem enablers other than startups (e.g., 
programs for incubator managers, academia, investors). 
6. Attach evidence of participation in any Startup India-hosted State Ranking Workshops. 
7. All submitted materials should clearly mention the name of the program, location, and timeline, 
and must relate to the current evaluation period. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. Attach impact summaries for each initiative (e.g., number of startups benefited, feedback scores, 
outcomes like partnerships or mentor-startup engagements). 
2. Provide video links, testimonials, or media clippings from workshops. 
3. Showcase examples of mentors that are matched to startups based on sectoral needs.  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 6: 
Focus on Innovation & Sustainability

--- PAGE 40 ---
15. Initiatives undertaken by the State/UT to facilitate research and innovation 
 
 
 
Questions 
15.1 Has the State/ UT initiated special provisions for facilitating and fast-tracking Intellectual 
Property Rights (IPR) like patent, copyright, trademark, etc., for Startups? 
15.2 Is the State/UT providing any R&D support (such as grants, infrastructure or partnerships) to 
foster innovation among startups. 
15.3 How many active educational or research institutions in the State/UT are engaged in 
promoting R&D innovation for startups? 
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
 
  For 
  
  Q15.1: Yes / No 
 
  Q15.2: Yes / No 
 
  Q15.3: Number of 
educational or 
research 
institutions 
engaged in 
promoting R&D 
and innovation 
for startups  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
   
  For Q15.1: Max Score – 1 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
   
  For Q15.2: Max Score – 1 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
  For Q15.3: Max Score - 2 
       Category A 
❖ >10 institutions = 2 
❖ 5-10 institutions = 1 
        Category B 
❖ >5 institutions = 2 
❖ 1-5 institutions = 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
 
100% 
 
Total Score for this Action Point = 4 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q15.1: 
• Total number of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) filed and granted by startups in the 
State/UT. This should include a detailed count of different types of IPRs such as patents, 
trademarks, copyrights, designs and any other recognized forms of IP. 
• Government orders, notifications, or policy documents regarding special provisions for fast-
tracking Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) such as patents, trademarks, copyrights for startups. 
• IPR support scheme documents, application links/forms, awareness materials (if any)  
Q15.2: 
• Circulars, or notifications showing any R&D support such as infrastructure, grants, or 
partnerships for startups. 
• MoU or partnership documents with R&D institutions, industry bodies, or innovation clusters. 
• Photos/reports of events, grants disbursed, or R&D infrastructure inaugurated for startups. 
Q15.3: 
• List of educational/research institutions actively promoting R&D and innovation for startups 
(with name, location, and type of support provided) 
• MoU/Letters from these institutions confirming engagement in startup R&D. 
• Press coverage, annual reports, or summaries of R&D activities involving startups.  
 
       Guidelines   Mandatory:   
1. Submit policy or government orders that specifically mention IPR facilitation for startups. 
2. States/UTs should report the number of active educational , or research institutions engaged in 
promoting R&D and innovation for startups.  
3. “Research Institutions” may include universities, technical institutes, government or private R&D 
centers and specialized innovation labs that formally support startup -led research, prototyping, 
testing or product development. 
 
  Recommended:  
1. Research & Development (R&D) may encompass activities but not limited to market research, 
feasibility studies, product design, prototype development, testing etc. for Startups across all 
stages. 
2. Include brochures, posters, or training materials used to promote startup IPR awareness. 
3. Add use cases or case studies of startups that benefitted from IPR or R&D support. 
4. Submit testimonials or success stories from collaborating institutions or startups. 
5. If available, share joint publications, patents filed, or prototypes developed under the supported 
R&D efforts. 
 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
16.   Support for Startups in Green Growth and Sustainability 
 
 
 
Questions 
 
16.1 Number of Startups supported by the State/UT government, focused on renewable energy, eco-
friendly practices, clean tech and sustainability.  
16.2 Number of districts that have startups present in the above areas. 
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
  
  
  For 
  
  Q16.1: Number of 
Startups 
supported by the 
State/UT 
 
  Q16.2: Number of 
districts that have 
startups present 
in these areas 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q16.1: Max Score – 1 
 
Category A 
❖ >100 startups = 1  
❖ 25-100 startups = 0.5 
 
Category B 
❖ >50 startups = 1   
❖ 10-50 startups = 0.5 
  For Q16.2: Max Score – 1 
                   Category A 
❖ >75 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-75 percentage = 0.5 
 
                   Category B 
❖ >50 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-50 percentage = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 2 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q16.1: 
• List of startups supported by the State/UT that are working in the fields of: 
➢ Renewable energy 
➢ Clean technology 
➢ Eco-friendly practices 
➢ Environmental sustainability  
• Details of the incentive provided for each Startup.  
• Testimonials or acknowledgment letters from the supported startups  
Q16.2: 
• List of districts where such green/sustainability startups are present  
• Any mapping, internal dashboard screenshot, or Excel-based tracker showing startup presence 
by district  
 
  Guidelines    
  Mandatory:  
1. Provide photos, media coverage, or award recognitions of startups supported in this domain. 
2. Provide official documents (sanctions, emails, MoUs, event collaterals) as proof of State/UT 
government support. 
3. Support may include: 
➢ Financial grants or incentives 
➢ Incubation or acceleration assistance 
➢ Market access facilitation 
➢ Regulatory guidance 
➢ Infrastructure support (labs, co-working spaces) 
➢ Capacity-building programs or mentorship 
➢ Participation in government-led sustainability challenges or exhibitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
    
  Recommended:  
1. Include case studies or success stories of startups contributing to green growth or climate 
action. 
2. Attach impact metrics, such as carbon savings, waste reduction, or renewable energy adoption. 
3. Highlight State-level green innovation challenges, sustainability hackathons, or pitch events 
conducted to support such startups. 
4. Efforts can focus on promoting startups working in areas such as renewable energy, clean 
technologies, eco -friendly practices, and circular economy models , and facilitating the 
adoption of green technologies across sectors to contribute to sustainable industrial and 
economic development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
17.   Entrepreneurial growth in the social innovation landscape 
 
 
 
Questions 
17.1 Are there any initiatives provided by the State/UTs to support Startups in the social 
enterprises sphere to create positive and lasting changes in society? 
17.2 a. How many Startups in the sphere of social enterprises have been supported by the 
State/UT? 
              b. Number of districts that have startups that are working in the field of social enterprises.  
Scoring 
Criteria 
  Absolute Scoring  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring  
Metric 
  
  For 
 
  Q17.1: Yes / No 
 
  Q17.2.a: Number of 
Startups 
supported. 
 
  Q17.2.b: Number of 
districts that 
have startups 
that are working 
in the field of 
social 
enterprises. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q17.1: Max Score – 1 
 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
 
  For Q17.2: Max Score – 2 
Metric 17.2.a (1) 
 
           Category A 
❖ >50 Startups = 1 
❖ 25-50 Startups = 0.75 
❖ 1-24 Startups = 0.5 
 
    Category B 
❖ >20 Startups = 1 
❖ 10-20 Startups = 0.75 
❖ 1-10 Startups = 0.5 
 
Metric 17.2.b (1) 
 
                   Category A 
❖ >75 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-75 percentage = 0.5 
 
                   Category B 
❖ >50 percentage = 1 
❖ 1-50 percentage = 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 3 
Supporting          
Documents 
Q17.1 & 17.2: 
• Scheme document / notification / order detailing the special incentives for social enterprises 
startups.  
• List of Startups supported. 
• Details of incentive provided for each Startup. 
• List of districts with number of social enterprises startups.  
  
      Guidelines   Mandatory: 
1. States should have a clear criterion to define “social enterprises”, which startups qualify, and this 
information should be published in the public domain. 
2. Details of incentives provided to the Startups should entail provision of a type of incentive, extent 
of incentive, and date of provision. In case of fiscal incentives, proof of support shall be provided. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. “Social Enterprise” startups are mission-driven ventures that use business strategies to address 
social or environmental challenges. Their primary aim is to create positive, measurable impact on 
society—such as improving livelihoods, promoting inclusion or supporting sustainability —while 
reinvesting profits to further their social goals. 
2. Some examples and instances (not limited to these) can be a mobile app for midwives to screen  
pregnant women in rural areas to identify and track high-risk pregnancies. A solar-powered water 
ATM provides clean water in villages, urban slums, and public places and a smart meter to measure 
water consumption in households. 
3. A scheme document covering incentives will be considered for the purpose of evaluation. 
4. It is not mandatory to include the clause in the State Startup Policy. 
 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reform Area 7: 
Impact and Recognition 

--- PAGE 45 ---
18.  Job opportunities created by startups  
 
 
Questions 
18.1 Does the State/UT have a dedicated platform or mechanism such as a startup job portal, career 
page or integration with existing employment platforms  to facilitate job , internship and 
apprenticeship opportunities.  
Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring  
 
 
           Scoring 
Metric 
  
  For 
 
  Q18.1: Yes / No  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score 
  For Q18.1: Max Score – 1 
 
❖ Yes = 1 
❖ No = 0 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
 Total Score for this Action Point = 1 
Supporting          
Documents 
 
Q18.1: 
• URL or access to the dedicated job portal, career page or employment platform integration. 
• Official communication/order/notification launching or detailing the platform/mechanism. 
• Screenshots or user interface samples of the platform (if access is restricted). 
• Data on job/internship/apprenticeship listings and applications received through the platform. 
• States/UTs should provide the number of startup employees registered under the Employees’ State 
Insurance (ESI) scheme. This data will help validate formal employment generation within the 
startup ecosystem. 
• Self-declared data from startups indicating number of direct jobs created, countersigned by the 
incubator/implementing agency (if applicable). 
• List of startups supported by the State/UT along with the corresponding number of jobs created 
by each startup. 
 
       Guidelines   
 Mandatory: 
1. The platform/mechanism must be verifiable and active during the evaluation period. 
2. The platform should specifically cater to or include startups in its scope. 
3. States must provide evidence of activity —such as job postings, internship listings or 
apprenticeship opportunities—facilitated via the platform. 
 
 Recommended: 
1. Include sector-wise or district-wise breakdowns to demonstrate diversity of impact. 
2. Consider including success stories or testimonials from supported startups that led to significant 
employment generation. 
3. The platform may be a standalone State -run portal, a dedicated startup careers page, or an 
official integration with national platforms.  
4. Career facilitation may include features such as resume uploads, employer dashboards, analytics, 
and matchmaking algorithms. 
5. Evidence of outcomes (e.g., number of successful hires or internships) will be considered 
positively. 
6. Startups listed on the platform should preferably be DPIIT-recognized or supported by the State. 
7. The portal may also include career awareness resources, guides or information on skilling 
programs linked to startup roles. 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---
19. Recognition of the startup ecosystem 
 
 
 
Questions 
 
19.1 Number of startups supported by the State/UT that have received any accolades / recognition / 
awards etc. in both national and international forums including at the National Startup Awards.  
 
 Scoring 
Criteria 
Absolute Scoring  
 
Scoring 
Metric 
 
  For 
 
  Q19.1: Number of 
startups 
supported by the 
State/UT 
 
 
 Score 
  For Q19.1: Max Score – 1 
 
  Category A 
❖ >10 Startups = 1 
❖ 5-10 Startups = 0.75 
❖ 1-4 Startups = 0.5  
           
           Category B 
❖ >5 Startups = 1 
❖ 3-4 Startups = 0.75 
❖ 1-2 Startups = 0.5 
 
 
Document 
Weightage: 
100% 
Total Score for this Action Point = 1 
Supporting          
Documents 
 
Q19.1: 
• Government order / scheme document / circular announcing startup awards, recognitions, or 
visibility platforms (e.g., Startup Awards, Founder Spotlights, Innovation Day events). 
• Evidence of visibility/recognition initiatives – program brochures, event flyers, 
newspaper/magazine clippings, social media campaigns, press releases, or video content. 
• List of startups recognized (including name, stage – idea/prototype/early growth – and recognition 
received). 
• Screenshots or links of digital promotions – newsletters, State Startup Portal pages or campaign -
specific microsites. 
 
  Guidelines    
  Mandatory: 
1. Recognition must be publicly verifiable via official documentation (event invites / media coverage / 
awards listing, etc.). 
2. States must submit a startup-wise list showing the form of recognition. 
 
  Recommended: 
1. Recognition formats may include awards, certificates, founder features, public felicitation, event 
showcases or media collaborations. 
2. Recognition for women -led, SC/ST, rural, or impact -driven startups is encouraged and may be 
highlighted. 
3. Include examples of multi-year recognitions or recurring platforms.  
4. Linkages to national -level visibility programs (e.g., Startup India showcase, features) can be 
mentioned if routed through the state. 
5. Additional proof like videos, interviews and case studies may be shared as annexures. 
6. Participation in competitive national platforms may be highlighted if accompanied by formal 
recognition. 
7. Include citations, jury notes or selection criteria if available. 
8. Recognition through collaborations with international bodies may also be noted. 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
 
Details & Abbreviations 
 
# Details 
1 DPIIT: Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade 
2 SISFS: Startup India Seed Fund Scheme  
3 FoFs: Fund of Funds  
4 CGSS: Credit Guarantee Scheme for Startups 
5 MAARG: Mentorship, Advisory, Assistance, Resilience, and Growth 
6 BHASKAR: Bharat Startup Knowledge Access Registry 
7 MoU: Memorandum of Understanding 
8 GeM: Government e Marketplace 
9 Soonicorn: Refers to a startup that is rapidly growing and has the potential to reach a 
valuation of $1 billion soon. 
10 Unicorn: Refers to a startup that has reached a valuation of $1 billion or more. 
11 GO: Government Order 
12 APIs: Application Programming Interface 
13 CXO: Term used in the business world to refer to high-level executive positions within a 
company, typically those with "Chief" in the title. 
14 Cloud Infrastructure: Refers to a web-based interface or platform provided by a cloud service 
provider that allows users to manage and interact with their cloud infrastructure resources. 
Key features include Dashboard Integration and APIs etc. 
15 NEFT/RTGS: National Electronic Funds Transfer and Real-Time Gross Settlement 
16 RFP: Request for Proposal 
17 EMD: Earnest Money Deposit 
18 Hackathon: Event where individuals or teams come together to collaborate on software 
projects within a limited timeframe 
19 HEIs: Higher Educational Institution 
20 ESG: stands for Environmental, Social, and Governance, and it refers to a set of 
criteria used by investors and other stakeholders to evaluate a company's 
sustainability and ethical impact. 
21 EPC: EPC, as a trade organization, may refer to the Engineering, Procurement, and 
Construction sector- specific trade associations or organizations. 
22 PPP: Public Private Partnership 
 